README.md, before:

# SmartLocker Campus System

## Overview
The SmartLocker Campus System is an innovative solution designed to manage and secure locker systems within educational institutions. It provides a user-friendly interface for locker management, integrating features like a virtual keypad, live camera feeds, locker location mapping, and QR code functionality. The system emphasizes user convenience and security, making locker management efficient and secure.

## Features

### User Interface
- **Sidebar Navigation:** Easy-to-use sidebar with links to all main features.
- **Responsive Design:** Optimized for various devices and screen sizes.
- **Interactive Main Content Area:** Displays relevant pages and information dynamically.

### Frontend Features
- **Live Camera Feed:** Monitor locker surroundings in real-time.
- **Locker Location Mapping:** Google Maps integration to locate lockers.
- **QR Code Functionality:** Generate and scan QR codes for locker information and access.
- **Suspicious Activity Alerts:** Monitoring and notification of unusual locker access.

### Backend and Security
- **Virtual Keypad:** Interact with lockers using a virtual keypad.
- **Data Visualization:** Charts for displaying locker status like humidity, temperature, etc.
- **Emergency Locker Unlock:** Special access for emergencies with logging.
- **Email Integration:** Automated notifications for critical alerts.
- **User Authentication and Management:** Enhanced security for user data.

### Additional Tools and Technologies
- **Chart.js:** For dynamic data representation.
- **QRCode.js:** To generate and read QR codes.
- **Instascan.js:** For real-time camera scanning of QR codes.
- **Node.js and Express.js:** Backend server development. (Node.js Version 18.18.2)
- **MongoDB:** Database for storing user and locker data.
- **Nodemailer:** For sending automated emails.
- **Bcrypt:** For secure password hashing.

## Installation and Setup

1. **Clone the Repository:**
   ```
   git clone [repository-url]
   ```

2. **Navigate to the Project Directory:**
   ```
   cd smart-locker-campus-system
   ```

3. **Install Dependencies:**
   ```
   npm install
   ```

4. **Setup MongoDB:**
   - Ensure MongoDB is installed and running on your system.
   - Configure the connection string in the application settings.

5. **Start the Server:**
   ```
   node app.js
   ```

6. **Access the Application:**
   - Open a web browser and navigate to `https://localhost:3000`.

## Usage

- **Login:** Use your credentials to access the system.
- **Locker Interaction:** Access the virtual keypad, view locker status, and use QR codes for locker operations.
- **Live Camera Feed:** Check the live feed for real-time surveillance.
- **User Settings:** Manage your account settings and password.

## Contributing

Contributions to the SmartLocker Campus System are welcome. Please follow these steps to contribute:

1. Fork the repository.
2. Create a new branch (`git checkout -b feature-branch`).
3. Make your changes and commit (`git commit -am 'Add some feature'`).
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin feature-branch`).
5. Create a new Pull Request.

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

---

**Note:** Replace `[repository-url]` with the actual URL of the GitHub repository.

Commit message:

Update installation instructions and add note about Node.js version

README.md, after:

# SmartLocker Campus System

## Overview
The SmartLocker Campus System is an innovative solution designed to manage and secure locker systems within educational institutions. It provides a user-friendly interface for locker management, integrating features like a virtual keypad, live camera feeds, locker location mapping, and QR code functionality. The system emphasizes user convenience and security, making locker management efficient and secure.

## Features

### User Interface
- **Sidebar Navigation:** Easy-to-use sidebar with links to all main features.
- **Responsive Design:** Optimized for various devices and screen sizes.
- **Interactive Main Content Area:** Displays relevant pages and information dynamically.

### Frontend Features
- **Live Camera Feed:** Monitor locker surroundings in real-time.
- **Locker Location Mapping:** Google Maps integration to locate lockers.
- **QR Code Functionality:** Generate and scan QR codes for locker information and access.
- **Suspicious Activity Alerts:** Monitoring and notification of unusual locker access.

### Backend and Security
- **Virtual Keypad:** Interact with lockers using a virtual keypad.
- **Data Visualization:** Charts for displaying locker status like humidity, temperature, etc.
- **Emergency Locker Unlock:** Special access for emergencies with logging.
- **Email Integration:** Automated notifications for critical alerts.
- **User Authentication and Management:** Enhanced security for user data.

### Additional Tools and Technologies
- **Chart.js:** For dynamic data representation.
- **QRCode.js:** To generate and read QR codes.
- **Instascan.js:** For real-time camera scanning of QR codes.
- **Node.js and Express.js:** Backend server development. (Node.js Version 18.18.2)
- **MongoDB:** Database for storing user and locker data.
- **Nodemailer:** For sending automated emails.
- **Bcrypt:** For secure password hashing.


## Installation and Setup

Before you begin the installation process, ensure you have Node.js version 18.18.2 installed on your system. If you don't have this version, you can download it from the [Node.js website](https://nodejs.org/).

1. **Clone the Repository:**
   ```
   git clone [repository-url]
   ```

2. **Navigate to the Project Directory:**
   ```
   cd smart-locker-campus-system
   ```

3. **Install Dependencies:**
   ```
   npm install
   ```

4. **Setup MongoDB:**
   - Ensure MongoDB is installed and running on your system.
   - Configure the connection string in the application settings.

5. **Start the Server:**
   ```
   node app.js
   ```

6. **Access the Application:**
   - Open a web browser and navigate to `https://localhost:3000`.

---

**Note:** Replace `[repository-url]` with the actual URL of the GitHub repository. Ensure that you have Node.js version 18.18.2 installed for optimal compatibility and performance. If you encounter any issues with a different version of Node.js, try switching to version 18.18.2.

---

## Usage

- **Login:** Use your credentials to access the system.
- **Locker Interaction:** Access the virtual keypad, view locker status, and use QR codes for locker operations.
- **Live Camera Feed:** Check the live feed for real-time surveillance.
- **User Settings:** Manage your account settings and password.

## Contributing

Contributions to the SmartLocker Campus System are welcome. Please follow these steps to contribute:

1. Fork the repository.
2. Create a new branch (`git checkout -b feature-branch`).
3. Make your changes and commit (`git commit -am 'Add some feature'`).
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin feature-branch`).
5. Create a new Pull Request.

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

---

**Note:** Replace `[repository-url]` with the actual URL of the GitHub repository.
